Okay, so now that you have
knowledge about modules and how
you can create your own custom
modules in Node js, let's start
with refactoring our code and move
the things, the related content to
appropriate, you know, what do you
call modules?
Okay, so what I have to do is this is
the code right now and you can see
that what is the state of this code.
So what I'm going to do is first
of all let's create a module
or a folder that is routes.
So it's a good practice
to get all your, all your
routes into this folder.
So you can see that these all routes
actually contains or actually you
know, they match to the books route.
Right.
So what happens when you
are in a real world?
There are a lot of routes.
Like for example, routes for books,
routes for authors, routes for
pricing, routes for checking out.
So you can see that right
now all the routes are actually
related to a book.
So what I can do is I can
actually create a file that is
book.routs ts or sorry js.
So I'm actually used
to the typescript world.
So yeah, so book routes js.
So here what we can do is we can
actually move all our book created
routes in this particular file.
So for that what we have
to do is first of all
let's import the express.
Okay?
And then express gives you
a functionality for a router.
So you can create a router
using Express router.
So what this will do is this router,
you have created a router here
and now what you can do is
you can create routes here.
Okay, for example,
example, let me show you.
Let's do it one by one.
So what I can do is first
of all I want to move this route.
Okay, so cut it from here
and paste it here.
And now you have to use router get.
Okay, that is Flashbox.
Great, you have moved one.
Then let's also move this one.
That is router.
Now we don't have app, we
have to use this router.
Okay, so this is a separate router.
Then let's also move this one.
Okay, so I'll just
move this one also.
So you can see that
this is also moved.
And then we can also
name it as router.
Okay, so router.post
route is also moved.
And let's also finally
move the delete one.
Okay, so now all the routers,
all the routes are moved.
Now what you have to do is
this router, is basically
handling all the books route.
Let's do a default export.
So default export of this router,
okay, so this router is now
default exported from here.
So see what we, what you did, you
created a new router, you added
all the routes to it and you
exported this router from here in
the index js, which is almost empty.
Now what I can do is I can
just say first of all
let's import that, right?
I want to import my custom
module or custom router.
So that is my book router.
So let's call it as book
router equals require.
And what I can say, I can just
say dot slash routes book.
So this book router basically is
a reference to that router, right?
So if I click on here, so you
will actually be coming
to here because this is what
you are exporting from here.
Now this book router can be used
how I can just say app dot use.
Okay.
And I can say for all the routes
use this book router.
So yeah, that's it.
So what you have done is you
have moved all the book related
stuff to this book router.
Now there are a couple of more
changes that we have to do.
Do you see that this slash books
is common, do you see the slash
books is common in everyone.
So what you can do is just remove it.
Just remove the slash books
at the beginning from everywhere.
Okay, so you can see that I have
removed everything from here.
Nice.
Now what you can do is you
can actually put just
once, that is slash books.
So this will tell the express
that hey, if there is any
route that starts with slash books
move delegate that
request to this book router.
So books get route will match here.
Books ID will match here.
Slash books post request
will match here.
And/books id delete will match here.
Nice.
So this you have moved.
Very good.
Now one thing.
Do you remember that we had
this memory, this, this db.
Now this DB is here and we are
not no longer able to access it.
So for that what we can do is I can
actually create a folder for db.
I mean in reality it will be
like a real db but right
now we don't have that.
So let's call it as book js.
And what I can do is I can just cut
it from here and paste it here.
And I can just say exports.
Let's call it as like books
equals just an array.
So I'm doing a named export
here of a books variable
which is my actual db.
Now inside your router what you
can do is let's import that.
Right, let's import that.
So this is a named export
so dot, dot, slash, go
one folder up and book.
And here you got the books.
Now what you can do all
the operations you have
to do on this books, right?
So this is one place
where we have to change.
Then this is where we have to change.
Then books, push then.
Then you have to change it here,
then you have to change it here.
And yeah, that's it.
So all the changes are done.
And yeah, one more thing.
Books.
Cool.
Okay, let's come back to the index.
Now the middlewares, right?
Let's remove this middleware.
This was just a custom middleware,
so no need to worry about that.
So you can see that we have a logger
middleware which we are using here.
Now this middlewares can also be
moved to a separate file, right?
Middlewares.
Okay.
So I can create a middleware
for let's say logging purpose.
So logger, js.
So what I can do, I can just take
up this middleware, cut it from
here, extract the logic here and
do a exports dot and just say
that exports logger middleware is
actually equals to a function,
right?
And that's it.
So now what we can do is because
this is exported from here, we have
to import this logger middleware.
So how can I do that?
I can just say all the middlewares
I can import here.
So const something equals require
to dot, slash, middleware logger.
So let's call it as log.
There is there is one named export
that is logger middleware.
So yeah, this is also done nice
routes middlewares.
This FS module is no longer
not, required here.
It is actually required
in the middleware.
Right, because this is
where we are using the fs.
So yeah, don't forget
to import the FS here.
So const.
Const FS equals require the node fs.
Right.
So this FS is actually
getting used here.
So this is also done.
Okay, I hope there is
nothing that we have left.
And let's go back to the index js.
So you have this thing, you have this
thing, you have this thing and.
Very cool.
Right.
So now you can see that our
code is actually splitted
into the multiple files.
Let me give you a walkthrough.
Let me just delete this file also.
First, your index js.
This is your main file, your entry
point where everything will start.
So this will actually
do an initialization.
So you have an app.
You are registering your middlewares,
you are registering your routes.
Any route that matches
books will go into this book router.
Right.
So this book router is basically
coming from this routes file.
That is book routes,
this routes, these all things
actually contains routes.
That is for the books.
Correct.
So now you can see that you have
a get route, you have a post route.
So all the routes, are given here.
Now one thing that you can do is you
can even extract out this logic.
Do you see?
This logic can be also extracted
to a different thing that
is known as a controller.
Okay.
So you can define a controller.
So we'll talk about
the MVC architecture model
view controller there.
You will understand this thing.
But right now this part is fine.
Let's test our implementation.
So npm start.
So if I go into the Thunder
client, let's see if
everything is working fine.
Right?
So if I try to get the all the books.
Yeah, you can see we are
getting all the books, right?
Cool.
Let's try to create a book.
Yeah, book creation is a success.
Let's try to get the book.
So you can see that now
I have three books.
Let's try to get the book three.
So I'm getting the book three only.
Let's try to delete
the book number two.
Okay, so book two, books slash two.
Okay, we have to make
a delete request.
My bad.
So delete request.
Book is deleted.
Let's now try to get it.
We should get a 404.
And if I try to get all
the books right, you can see
that book two is not there.
Nice guys.
You have actually successfully
refactored your code in a very great
way and congratulations.
Now you know how to work
with model modules and how
to structure your code.
Moving further, what we are going
to do is we are actually going
to write code in our different,
different files so that it is
easier to read, easier to
maintain, and we follow the best
practices.